#Research on Buffets:
#After doing some research, I have found out that the average amount of waste per year from food is 108 billion pounds, which contributes to severe greenhouse gas emissions, and takes up much of the space in landfills, and also takes away money, energy, and resources that we could be using on other things. The predominant greenhouse gas emitted into the atmosphere from this food waste is methane, which is 25 times more harmful than carbon dioxide to the environment, which is already and will continue to play a key role in changing the climate for the worse (Kundamal). 
#I have also found that buffet food waste is not just an American problem. Around the world, specifically places like Taiwan, Malaysia, and the United Kingdom, there are numerous reports of copious amounts of food waste. In some of the Taiwanese buffets, it has been estimated that the average customer left 115 grams of food waste every day in a regular buffet and 112 grams in a vegetarian restaurant. Additionally, the central kitchen produced 200-400 kg of food waste per day, most of it from inedible food, but still a significant amount of waste. At a five star hotel in Malaysia, it was estimated that customers left 1100 grams of food waste for lunch and 1000 grams for dinner. In a Chinese buffet in the UK, the average waste was 138 grams per customer. (Wu & Teng). These statistics emphasize just how important it is that buffets and buffet style restaurants find a way to reduce their waste, or they will continue to cause severe ramifications. 
#Different food types may get wasted more depending on the culture that the buffet is in, which is why it is important for buffets to have some idea of what foods are wasted more than others. They can fit the production close to the demand, which could also reduce costs of buffets for the customer and the restaurant because there will be less food to buy and prepare. 
#Some strategies of reducing waste for buffets include: keeping tight measurements of food waste to identify what food is popular and/or unpopular to adjust the menu accordingly; educating workers and customers of food waste statistics which could discourage food waste and encourage mindful consumption; implementing incentives for not wasting food, maybe putting some kind of tax on the food, or requiring people to buy the food based on weight; reuse food waste if possible (putting meat bones in a soup to give it extra flavor, using olives or pickles as garnish); giving the food to workers, charities, homeless shelters, poverty stricken areas; using the food in compost bins to grow more crops and encourage environmental sustainability. (Wu & Teng).

#Research on University Halls:
#After doing some research on university hall food waste, I have found that the estimated amount of food waste from universities is around 540,000 tons each year (Filo, et al.) This makes a lot of sense to me because when I went to Arizona Christian University, I had a 14 meals a week plan, and I got to experience and observe how much food was wasted at university. It is interesting too that “according to a 2017 report from The Hechinger Report, the average cost of a meal plan for an academic year is $4,500, averaging $18.75 per day. Adjusted for inflation, the cost would be over $5,700 in 2023” (Murti). Doing the math myself, in 2023, spending $5,700 per academic year would be an average of $12.72 on each meal, and if someone wanted to buy snacks, even more. The majority of universities require students that have a scholarship to also buy a meal plan, which is much more expensive than buying groceries for the meals, or even eating out every meal. From what I have experienced, the cafeteria food is not much healthier than eating out, so what benefit is there to it over other options?
#However, if universities could make the meal plans cheaper, they could be worth it for students. One way that the meal plans could be cheaper is by reducing the amount of waste that the university produces, by doing the strategies that I mentioned earlier in the buffet style restaurant research.
#Although many universities that reported have claimed to have food waste management systems (85%), many of them cannot fully control what the cafeterias and food halls do, because they are serviced by an independent company disconnected from the university. If universities are willing to control the food halls themselves, much less food could be wasted and they could save thousands to millions of dollars per year (Filo, et al.).
